README.md, before:

This module allows admins to add redirects from one URL to another within an [Apostrophe site](http://apostrophecms.org/).

This version is for [Apostrophe 2.x](http://apostrophecms.org/). For Apostrophe 0.5 use the 0.x series.

**Table of Contents**

* [Installation](#installation)

* [Configuration](#configuration)

* [Usage](#usage)

## <a id="installation"></a> Installation

First make sure you have an [Apostrophe project](http://apostrophecms.org/)!

Then:

```javascript
npm install --save apostrophe-redirects
```

## <a id="installation"></a> Configuration

In `app.js`, add the module to your configuration:

```javascript
// Other modules, then...
'apostrophe-redirects': { }
```

If you wish, you can change the default status code to `301` (permanent redirect):

```javascript
// Other modules, then...
'apostrophe-redirects': {
  statusCode: 301
}
```

> Note that permanent redirects are cached by Google for a long time. It is a good idea to encourage users to test with a temporary redirect first, then switch to permanent which is an SEO best practice — as long as it's correct.

That's it!

## <a id="usage"></a> Usage

While logged in as an admin, click the "Redirects" button. A list of redirects appears, initially empty. Add as many redirects as you like. The "from" URL must begin with a `/`. The "to" URL may be anything and need not be on your site. The "description" field is for your own convenience.

Be aware that each redirect is live as soon as you save it and that it is possible to make a mess with redirects. In a pinch, you can remove unwanted redirects via the MongoDB command line client (look for `{ type: "apostrophe-redirect" }` in the `aposDocs` collection in MongoDB).

Also be aware that Apostrophe already creates "soft redirects" every time you change the slug of a page. So you shouldn't need manually created "hard redirects" in that situation.

## Advanced configuration with pieces

If you have pieces on your site and you would like to make a safer more persistent redirect that will update if your redirect destination changes, you can use polymorphic joins. To do this you need to add your piece(s) when configuring the module:

```javascript
'apostrophe-redirects': {
  withType: ['apostrophe-page', 'product']
}
```

Note: When adding your own pieces, you should always define `apostrophe-page` to still make it possible to redirect to any normal page. Also note that your piece is written in singular and that you must have a suitable apostrophe-pieces-page for your piece (that is, it must have a `._url` property when Apostrophe fetches it). Refer to the core documentation for [reusable content with pieces](https://apostrophecms.org/docs/tutorials/getting-started/reusable-content-with-pieces.html#displaying-a-directory-of-people-on-a-page-with-code-apostrophe-pieces-pages-code).

Now when you create a new redirect, you have the option to browse for both pages and your pieces in the Apostrophe admin UI.

## Changelog

2.2.0 Implemented polymorphic joins for internal pages which also makes it possible to configure your own pieces for polymorphic joins.

2.1.0 Disables `apostrophe-site-map` for redirects to prevent more superfluous UI tabs.

2.0.0: Implemented `statusCode` option and user-editable `statusCode` field allowing the user to choose a permanent or temporary redirect. For bc the default is still `302`. If the `statusCode` option is set to `301` instead, permanent redirects will be the default for *new* redirects. Existing redirects may be manually switched to `301` if desired.

0.6.6: Disables `apostrophe-seo` and `apostrophe-open-graph` for redirects to prevent superfluous UI tabs.

0.6.5: Use express middleware instead of relying on `apos.pages.serve`. This lets redirects happen for files, etc.

0.6.1: the `redirectSlug` should be `type: 'string'` because the old site may have allowed nonsense in slugs that we do not allow. Also compare to `req.url` so query string matches are allowed.

0.6.0: initial release.

Commit message:

2.3.0: "Ignore query string" option for times when you'd like to match the URL regardless of the `?` and everything that folows it. Thanks to Shaun Hurley for the contribution.

README.md, after:

This module allows admins to add redirects from one URL to another within an [Apostrophe site](http://apostrophecms.org/).

This version is for [Apostrophe 2.x](http://apostrophecms.org/). For Apostrophe 0.5 use the 0.x series.

**Table of Contents**

* [Installation](#installation)

* [Configuration](#configuration)

* [Usage](#usage)

## <a id="installation"></a> Installation

First make sure you have an [Apostrophe project](http://apostrophecms.org/)!

Then:

```javascript
npm install --save apostrophe-redirects
```

## <a id="installation"></a> Configuration

In `app.js`, add the module to your configuration:

```javascript
// Other modules, then...
'apostrophe-redirects': { }
```

If you wish, you can change the default status code to `301` (permanent redirect):

```javascript
// Other modules, then...
'apostrophe-redirects': {
  statusCode: 301
}
```

> Note that permanent redirects are cached by Google for a long time. It is a good idea to encourage users to test with a temporary redirect first, then switch to permanent which is an SEO best practice — as long as it's correct.

That's it!

## <a id="usage"></a> Usage

While logged in as an admin, click the "Redirects" button. A list of redirects appears, initially empty. Add as many redirects as you like. The "from" URL must begin with a `/`. The "to" URL may be anything and need not be on your site. The "description" field is for your own convenience.

Be aware that each redirect is live as soon as you save it and that it is possible to make a mess with redirects. In a pinch, you can remove unwanted redirects via the MongoDB command line client (look for `{ type: "apostrophe-redirect" }` in the `aposDocs` collection in MongoDB).

Also be aware that Apostrophe already creates "soft redirects" every time you change the slug of a page. So you shouldn't need manually created "hard redirects" in that situation.

## Advanced configuration with pieces

If you have pieces on your site and you would like to make a safer more persistent redirect that will update if your redirect destination changes, you can use polymorphic joins. To do this you need to add your piece(s) when configuring the module:

```javascript
'apostrophe-redirects': {
  withType: ['apostrophe-page', 'product']
}
```

Note: When adding your own pieces, you should always define `apostrophe-page` to still make it possible to redirect to any normal page. Also note that your piece is written in singular and that you must have a suitable apostrophe-pieces-page for your piece (that is, it must have a `._url` property when Apostrophe fetches it). Refer to the core documentation for [reusable content with pieces](https://apostrophecms.org/docs/tutorials/getting-started/reusable-content-with-pieces.html#displaying-a-directory-of-people-on-a-page-with-code-apostrophe-pieces-pages-code).

Now when you create a new redirect, you have the option to browse for both pages and your pieces in the Apostrophe admin UI.

## Changelog

2.3.0: "Ignore query string" option for times when you'd like to match the URL regardless of the `?` and everything that folows it. Thanks to Shaun Hurley for the contribution.

2.2.0: Implemented polymorphic joins for internal pages which also makes it possible to configure your own pieces for polymorphic joins.

2.1.0: Disables `apostrophe-site-map` for redirects to prevent more superfluous UI tabs.

2.0.0: Implemented `statusCode` option and user-editable `statusCode` field allowing the user to choose a permanent or temporary redirect. For bc the default is still `302`. If the `statusCode` option is set to `301` instead, permanent redirects will be the default for *new* redirects. Existing redirects may be manually switched to `301` if desired.

0.6.6: Disables `apostrophe-seo` and `apostrophe-open-graph` for redirects to prevent superfluous UI tabs.

0.6.5: Use express middleware instead of relying on `apos.pages.serve`. This lets redirects happen for files, etc.

0.6.1: the `redirectSlug` should be `type: 'string'` because the old site may have allowed nonsense in slugs that we do not allow. Also compare to `req.url` so query string matches are allowed.

0.6.0: initial release.
